- [Instructor] We have discussed already how parent poms
can help an organization control the actual dependencies
used by projects within the organization.
The mechanism for doing this is most often
through the use of dependency management.
To illustrate how this works
let's implement the dependency management section
in our parent pom for our project.
So, let's jump into our IDE.
The first thing that I want you to do
is to go into the sub-project
and cut the properties.
Now go to the parent pom
and paste those properties in.
Now, in order to test this
we're going to go back to the root
of our project end terminal
and just do a maven clean verify.
If this runs to completion, we know that the properties
have actually moved from the parent pom down to the children
which is what we would expect.
And indeed we got a build success.
Now, let's jump back over into our parent pom
and we're going to put in a dependency management section.
Now, to our dependency management section,
we're going to add all of the dependencies
from our child project.
Let's come over here and let's actually copy them all.
Go from the beginning of the dependencies tag to the end
copy those, and drop them
into the dependency management section of the parent.
We can leave scope in, everything else is fine.
But, now go back to the child project
and remove scope and version on every single one of them.
So all we should be specifying
is the group and the artifact.
What this is saying is,
is this project needs these dependencies
but I don't care about scope or version,
let the parent handle those.
Now, I can override anything from the parent in the child
as long as the enforcer plug-in isn't in play.
But since in this case
we don't have the enforcer plug-in running,
I can override whatever I want.
So, we want to make sure that we've removed version
from each and every artifact.
Once we're confirmed that all of that is done,
let's jump back to our terminal
and once again, run maven clean verify.
If this executes to completion,
we know that we've actually
built our parent pom correctly now.
Now, as you can see, we've got a build success
which is what we want.
Now, we can go much further than this.
We could go and move all of our plug-in management
into our parent pom as well.
Specifically the things around build and reporting.
We're going to leave that for your to do on your own.
The idea here is to really show the power of this section
by removing the versions.
This allows your developers not to worry about things
but, for all of your projects to share a version
which means, if a defect exists
you could impact the entire build
by simply changing the version in your parent pom
and triggering a new release of all of your artifacts.
Again, we can go much further
but I'm going to leave that up to you.
Just know that this is how a parent pom works.